# Paper title: Optical Flow-based Obstacle Avoidance Integrated with Geospatial Navigation
Hunor I. Nás and Levente G. Nás\
Scientific Students' Conference\
Óbuda University, John von Neumann Faculty of Informatics (NIK)

## Abstract
Everything in the technology field is advancing towards automation; whether that is full- or semi-automation. Obstacle avoidance falls under these automation efforts. However, the sensors used to achieve reliable results are very costly. This research aims to develop and test a reliable optical flow-based autonomous obstacle avoidance algorithm. Developing a refined and optimized optical flow algorithm would enable further obstacle avoidance research without the limitation of cost. Furthermore, we intend to integrate the obstacle avoidance algorithm into a geo-spatial navigation algorithm to create a closed loop rover-like vehicle capable of land surveying, collecting vital sensor data on large monotone landscapes, monitoring gas pipeline and electrical grid stations, and surveying other tedious and repetitive land masses autonomously. We will test the accuracy and reliability of the obstacle avoidance by feeding collected test frames into the algorithm and analyzing the output results. To test more realistic situations, a rover equipped with a raspberry pi, electric brushless motor, two electric servos, camera, and a proximity sensor will be built to test the algorithm dynamically. The geo-location navigation algorithm will be tested separate from the obstacle avoidance algorithm, utilizing the rover build, by following a predetermined path of coordinates. The path following accuracy will be analyzed for reliability. Throughout the paper, we will unpack the ideas of geo-spatial navigation and autonomous obstacle avoidance in the context of optical flow.
